README.md, before:

# Zaratan Bootcamp

## Important!
[Advan Parquet Data](https://umd.account.box.com/login?redirect_url=%2Ffile%2F1765677957299&logout=true) 

[Zaratan Github Repository](https://github.com/bufn403/Zaratan-Bootcamp)

## Overview
The Zaratan Bootcamp introduces students to the University of Maryland's High-Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, Zaratan. This bootcamp covers essential topics such as connecting to the cluster, running jobs, transferring files, and utilizing shared resources.

## Goals
- Understand how to connect to Zaratan from macOS, Windows, and Linux.
- Learn how to navigate the HPC environment.
- Submit and manage jobs using the Slurm workload manager.
- Transfer data to and from Zaratan.
- Utilize shared datasets and directories for collaborative research.

## Prerequisites
1. Have an active UMD HPC account (Everyone should be added).
2. Are enrolled in the Zaratan access list.
3. Have Duo MFA set up for auth.


## Connect to Zaratan
```
ssh [DIRECTORY_ID]@login.zaratan.umd.edu
```

## Bootcamp
1. Overview of Zaratan and HPC computing.
2. Connecting to Zaratan via SSH.
3. Clone the GitHub Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bufn403/Zaratan-Bootcamp.git
```

## Resources
- Visit the HPC support page: [https://hpcc.umd.edu/hpcc/help/](https://hpcc.umd.edu/hpcc/help/)

Commit message:

Created a new job for simple data analysis. Organized the folders and updated the markdown docs.

README.md, after:

# Zaratan Bootcamp

## Important!
[Advan Parquet Data](https://umd.account.box.com/login?redirect_url=%2Ffile%2F1765677957299&logout=true) 

[Zaratan Github Repository](https://github.com/bufn403/Zaratan-Bootcamp)

## Overview
The Zaratan Bootcamp introduces students to the University of Maryland's High-Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, Zaratan. This bootcamp covers essential topics such as connecting to the cluster, running jobs, transferring files, and utilizing shared resources.

## Goals
- Connect to Zaratan using SSH and (optionally) vscode SSH Remote Explorer
- Submit and manage jobs using the Slurm workload manager
- Transfer data to and from Zaratan.
- Run a few jobs to process and analyze Advan data.


## Prerequisites
1. Have an active UMD HPC account (Everyone should be added).
2. Are enrolled in the Zaratan access list.
3. Have Duo MFA set up for auth.


## Connect to Zaratan
```
ssh [DIRECTORY_ID]@login.zaratan.umd.edu
```

## Bootcamp
1. Overview of Zaratan and HPC computing.
2. Connecting to Zaratan via SSH.
3. Clone the GitHub Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bufn403/Zaratan-Bootcamp.git
```

## Resources
- Visit the HPC support page: [https://hpcc.umd.edu/hpcc/help/](https://hpcc.umd.edu/hpcc/help/)
